---
layout: post
title: Chapter 04 - Self-Awareness
date: 2020-04-29 11:11:00 +1200
categories: [chapters-theory]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

<h2>Mindfulness</h2>

We will start and end each therapy session with exercises intended to improve our awareness of self and our empathy for others. During the first session (or any session where there are new members), we may want to start with a grounding exercise. This grounding exercise allows group members to begin by focusing on their bodies, bringing them into the "here and now", helping to minimize anxieties about group work or other distracting thoughts.

This body scan to begin group session will be linked to again in the <i>Practice<i> section and in the list of podcasts in the <i>Podcasts</i> section.

<h3>Body Scan</h3>

<audio controls>
  <source src="horse.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
  <source src="horse.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

<h2>Monitoring Our Behavior</h2>

A group therapy workbook has been provided which will allow you to make note of behaviors during the week between group sessions which you would like to explore in group therapy. You can note the context and the behavior, an initial impressions and bring this to the group session, where the experience can be explored together. The goal is for us to learn about ourselves, getting insights and positive reinforcement from the group.

<h2>The Role Of Others</h2>

There are times we want feedback from others - that is part of the reason for group therapy. We all notice the actions of others and, over time, we imagine that we see patterns. Getting and giving feedback are important aspects of group work. Ultimately, however, we will take the feedback of others and decide what we want to accept. The more we are aware of ourselves, the more consciously we can decide to integrate the input of others.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-03/">Chapter Three</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-05/">Chapter Five</a>
</div>
