---
layout: post
title: Chapter 05 - Creating Yourself
date: 2020-04-29 11:12:00 +1200
categories: [chapters-theory]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

<h2>Understanding Your Narratives</h2>

One of the purposes and most immediate benefits of group narrative work is that you begin to understand the narratives that dominate your life. That is, you begin to see the stories that you have accepted without thought most of your life. Before you can seriously consider exploring other narratives, you need to think about the stories you already tell yourself.

<h2>Considering Narratives</h2>

After you have considered your dominant narratives to date, you begin to look for "exceptions". What stories from your life do not fit in with the major stories you have told yourself (and been told by others)? Perhaps there were times that you did things that surprised you, because they did not fit in with who you imagined yourself to be. Perhaps you imagined a different future, but couldn't bring yourself to pursue it. There are many possibilities. Most of us have the mental habit of dismissing things that don't fit it. This part of group narratives involves working through those exceptions, looking for patterns and new ways of thinking.

<h2>Deciding On Preferred Narratives</h2>

After you have explored your dominant narratives and then looked for exceptions, this is where the benefits really begin! You start to imagine how you life might be, following the exceptions to new stories about yourself. Most of us tend to be conservative in these efforts and this is one of the many benefits of being in the group - having others to help you explore possibilities. The choice is ALWAYS yours, but having others to explore with can be invaluable. Ultimately, you will begin to decide how you want your life to be, armed with your insights of past narratives.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-04/">Chapter Four</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-06/">Chapter Six</a>
</div>
