---
layout: post
title: Chapter 06 - Types of Progress
date: 2020-04-29 11:13
categories: [chapters-theory]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

<h2>Immediate Relief</h2>

Therapy has different benefits, resulting from different needs. Some need immediate relief. Perhaps you are experiencing anxiety and you need to work on the thoughts that are making you despair. Perhaps you are dealing with a specific issue and your negative self-talk is bringing you down. There are a number of techniques that can be used to help with this immediate anxiety and negative thoughts (Cognitive Therapy approaches can help considerably here). If you come to therapy with such immediate concerns and others begin talking of long-term goals, you can rightly become frustrated and begin to tell yourself that therapy is not for you. 

If you need immediate relief, you have a number of options. Some groups are set up to work on cognitive distortions (such as negative self-talk). For anxiety that becomes too difficult, you should see your GP to see if they can refer you for additional help. For some negative self-talk, Compassion-Focused Therapy (including the compassion exercises in this book) can help to deal with the things you are saying to yourself. 

While it is impossible to provide a single recommendation, it is important to realise that there are situations in which you might need immediate relief before beginning group therapy that focuses on longer-term re-writing of your narratives of life.

<h2>Longer-Term Progress</h2>

This is the ultimate goal of Group Narrative Practice. Yes, having others to listen to you can provide the emotional support for more immediate relief. As we begin to understand our stories, we are empowered. This can have wonderful and immediate results. As we re-write our stories, we create new lives for ourselves. This long-term progress is the horizon towards which we walk.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-05/">Chapter Five</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-07/">Chapter Seven</a>
</div>
