---
layout: post
title: Chapter 03 - Personal Power
date: 2020-04-29 11:10
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

<h2>Empowerment</h2>

Like Narrative Therapy, our group therapy emphasizes empowerment. While we are working as a group to help each other, we are not intentionally exerting authority over one another. We realise that group work provides feedback and support - discussed throughout this book - but the goal is that each member of the group is further empowered to take control over their own lives.

<h2>Monitoring Power Dynamics</h2>

This topic will be discussed in reference to the role of the facilitator, but involves efforts by the facilitator and the whole group to ensure that no individuals are exerting undue power (to be discussed). It must be understood that within each group people will have different styles of relating and these can be explored, but any power dynamic while sees individuals exploiting others in the group are to be labelled and discussed. 

<h2>No Easy Definitions</h2>

There is no easy definition of the role of each person in the group. Some people want to exert more power over themselves and others, while other group members prefer to take more collective role. The personal power most clearly discussed here is the attempt by group members to exert more power over their life choices because they are learning about themselves in group work. If a group member is discovering personal power in his or her life and is happy to take a less active role in the group therapy context, this can be considered a positive outcome. Part of personal power is that others in the group are not in a place to ultimately tell a member if he or she is successful in therapy.


<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-02/">Chapter Two</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-04/">Chapter Four</a>
</div>
